Safe handling of memory

Variable overflow into adjacent memory, resulting in memory corruption

Exploit buffer overflow to directly change memory which you are not supposed
to access

"when you change your name to anything large enough, the game goes nuts!
Sometimes, you'll get random items in your inventory, or your coins just
disappear."

"whenever we execute a program, all data will be processed somehow through
the computer's RAM. All relevant data is stored in memory and updated as needed as the program execution progresses."

"a debugger will be needed to check the memory contents while the game runs [...] they programmed a debug panel into the game".

"debugging functionality to watch the memory layout of some of the game's variables"

*In this case, the debugger includes ASCII and HEX formats.

"Viewing the contents in RAM will prove helpful for understanding how memory
corruption occurs".

"right before the 'coins' memory space, we have the player_name variable [...]
the player_name variable only has room to accomodate 12 bytes of information
[...] if you try to change your name to [anything over 12 bytes], the extra
data will overflow to the first byte of the coins variable

0x78 = 120

0x78 = x (ASCII)

"The game doesn't check if the player_name variable has enough space to store
the new name. Instead, it keeps writing to adjacent memory, overwriting the
values of other variables. This is known as a buffer overflow and can be used
to corrupt memory right next to the vulnerable variable."

"Buffer overflows occur in some programming languages, mostly C and C++, where
the variables' boundaries aren't strict. If programmers don't check the
boundaries themselves, it's possible to abuse a variable to read or write
memory beyond the space initially reserved for it."

"How does the game know the length of a string if no boundary checks are
performed on the variable?"

"When strings are written to memory, each character is written in order,
taking 1 byte each. A NULL character, represented in our game by a red zero,
is also concatenated at the end of the string. A NULL character is simply a
byte with the value 0x00, which can be seen by changing the debug panel to HEX
mode. 

When reading a variable as a string, the game will stop at the first NULL
character it finds. This allows programmers to store smaller strings into
variables with larger capacities. Any character appearing after the NULL byte
is ignored, even if it has a value."

"the game reads from the start of the variable up the first NULL byte, which
appears in the first byte in our example. Therefore, this is equivalent to
having an empty string."

"Since C++ doesn't check variable boundaries, it reads your name from the
start of the player_name variable to the first NULL byte it finds. That's why
your name is now 16 characters long, even though the player_name variable
should only fit 12 bytes. 

Part of your name now overlaps with the coins variable, so if you spend some
money in the shop, your visible name will also change!"